Adding Deployment Quickstart (#9985)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/getting-started/orchestration_quickstart.md

# Orchestration Quickstart

This guide is designed to get you to the point of successfully running a deployed Prefect flow in as few steps as possible. For a more comprehensive introduction to Prefect's core orchestration concepts, please follow our [tutorial pages](/tutorial/index/).

### Step 1: [Install Prefect](/getting-started/installation/)

> We recommend installing Prefect using a Python virtual environment manager such as conda, or virtualenv.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend installing Prefect using a Python virtual environment manager such as conda or virtualenv.
```

```bash 
pip install -U prefect
```

> ### Step 2: Connect to Cloud or Self Host Prefect Server

Reviewer: This may be an opportunity to use @discdiver's new tab feature for cloud or self-hosted :) For funzies

[Create a forever free cloud account](/cloud/cloud-quickstart) and authenticate to your workspace via your terminal by running:
```bash
prefect cloud login
```

> OR to use our open source offering, in a new terminal run to host the Prefect engine locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you'd instead like to use our open source offering, host the Prefect engine locally by running
```

```bash
prefect server start
```

### Step 3: Author a Flow

> **The fastest way to get started with Prefect is to clone a test repo in GitHub or equivalent and simply add an `@flow` decorator to any python function**.

Reviewer: maybe "your code repository" or clone https://github.com/PrefectHQ/hello-projects/tree/main

        average_commits = total_commits / contributors
        return average_commits
    else:
        raise Exception('Failed to fetch commit information.')

@flow(name="Repo Info", log_prints=True)
def my_flow_function():
    url = 'https://api.github.com/repos/PrefectHQ/prefect'
    api_response = httpx.get(url)
    if api_response.status_code == 200:
        repo_info = api_response.json()
        stars = repo_info['stargazers_count']
        forks = repo_info['forks_count']
        contributors_url = repo_info['contributors_url']
        contributors = get_contributors(contributors_url) # Task Call Here
        average_commits = calculate_average_commits(contributors) # Task Call Here
        print(f"PrefectHQ/prefect repository statistics 🤓:")
        print(f"Stars 🌠 : {stars}")
        print(f"Forks 🍴 : {forks}")
        print(f"Average commits per contributor 💌 : {average_commits:.2f}")
    else:
        raise Exception('Failed to fetch repository information.')

if __name__ == '__main__':
    my_flow_function()
```

### Step 4: Run your Flow Locally
Prefect Flows don't just look pythonic, they run like python functions too! 

> Call any function that you've decorated with a `@flow` decorator to see a local instance of a FlowRun.

Reviewer 2: This is the first that I've seen "FlowRun", elsewhere I believe its "flow run", right?

14:36:56.497 | INFO    | Flow run 'dazzling-hawk' - Created task run 'get_contributors-0' for task 'get_contributors'
14:36:56.499 | INFO    | Flow run 'dazzling-hawk' - Executing 'get_contributors-0' immediately...
14:36:57.405 | INFO    | Task run 'get_contributors-0' - Finished in state Completed()
14:36:57.525 | INFO    | Flow run 'dazzling-hawk' - Created task run 'calculate_average_commits-0' for task 'calculate_average_commits'
14:36:57.526 | INFO    | Flow run 'dazzling-hawk' - Executing 'calculate_average_commits-0' immediately...
14:36:58.227 | INFO    | Task run 'calculate_average_commits-0' - Finished in state Completed()
14:36:58.256 | INFO    | Flow run 'dazzling-hawk' - PrefectHQ/prefect repository statistics 🤓:
14:36:58.257 | INFO    | Flow run 'dazzling-hawk' - Stars 🌠 : 12160
14:36:58.258 | INFO    | Flow run 'dazzling-hawk' - Forks 🍴 : 1252
14:36:58.259 | INFO    | Flow run 'dazzling-hawk' - Average commits per contributor 💌 : 345.07
14:36:58.494 | INFO    | Flow run 'dazzling-hawk' - Finished in state Completed('All states completed.')
```
</div>

> Beyond examining these logs, you have the option to explore the FlowRun via the UI to visualize its dependency diagram. You should find a link directing you to the FlowRun page conveniently positioned at the top of your flow logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beyond examining these logs, you have the option to explore the flow run via the UI to visualize its dependency diagram. You should find a link directing you to the flow run page conveniently positioned at the top of your flow logs.
```

Local execution is great for development and testing, but in order to schedule flow runs or trigger them based on events, you’ll need to [deploy](/tutorial/deployments/) your flows.

### Step 5: Deploy Flow

Deploying your flows is, in essence, the act of informing the Prefect API of where, how, and when to run your flows. Prefect offers CLI commands for quick deployment creation.

> !!! warning "Run `prefect deploy` commands from the **root** of your repo!"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! warning "Run `prefect deploy` and `prefect init` commands from the **root** of your repo!"
```

Author: Since Prefect init is not mentioned in this quickstart I don't want to add it to the title of this tip. Do you think thats ok. If the title needs to match the content I might remove it from the text below.

>     When running any `prefect deploy` or `prefect init` commands, double check that you are at the root of your repo, otherwise the worker may attempt to use an incorrect flow entrypoint during remote execution!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    When running `prefect deploy` or `prefect init`, double check that you are at the root of your repo, otherwise the worker may attempt to use an incorrect flow entrypoint during remote execution!
```

I think we should choose either the warning or this sentence, but not both

> When you execute the deploy command, Prefect will automatically detect any flows defined in your repository. Simply choose the one you wish to deploy. Then, follow the 🧙 wizard to name your deployment, add an optional schedule, create a Work Pool, optionally configure a flow code pull step, and more!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you run the `deploy` command, Prefect will automatically detect any flows defined in your repository. Simply choose the one you wish to deploy. Then, follow the 🧙 wizard to name your deployment, add an optional schedule, create a work pool, optionally configure a flow code `pull` step, and more!
```

```bash
prefect deploy
```

> The last prompt in the `prefect deploy` wizard asks if you would like to save the configuration for the deployment, saying yes to this will result in a prefect.yaml file populated with your first deployment. You can use this yaml file to edit and [manage all deployments](/concepts/deployments-ux/) for this repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last prompt in the `prefect deploy` wizard asks if you would like to save the configuration for the deployment. Confirming this will result in a `prefect.yaml` file populated with your first deployment. You can use this yaml file to edit and [manage all deployments](/concepts/deployments-ux/) for this repo.
```

### Step 6: Start a Worker and Run Deployed Flow

> Since Prefect's API does not directly execute flows, you'll need to start a worker to manage local flow execution. [Each worker polls its assigned WorkPool](https://docs.prefect.io/2.10.18/tutorial/deployments/#why-work-pools-and-workers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Prefect's API does not directly execute flows, you'll need to start a worker to manage local flow execution. [Each worker polls its assigned work pool](https://docs.prefect.io/2.10.18/tutorial/deployments/#why-work-pools-and-workers).
```

> In a new terminal run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a new terminal, run:
```

```bash

> prefect worker start --pool <name-of-your-work-pool>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
prefect worker start --pool <work-pool-name>
```

```

Now that your worker is started, you are ready to kick off deployed flow runs from either the UI or by running:

```bash

> prefect deployment run 'Repo Info/<my-deployment-name>'

Reviewer: This should probably be the real deployment name

```

!!! reminder "Reminder: A flow name can be different from its function name!"
    The above deployment run command follows the following format:
    
    `prefect deployment run '<flow name>/<deployment-name>`

!!! Warning "Common Pitfall"

>     If you optionally set a git based pull step, ensure that you have pushed any changes to your flow script to your GitHub repo - at any given time, your worker will pull the code that exists there!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you decide to set a git-based pull step (e.g.`git_clone`), ensure that you have pushed any changes to your flow script to your GitHub repo. During your deployment run, your worker will pull the code that exists there!
```

> Congrats on your first successfully deployed FlowRun! Now you've seen how to define your flows and tasks using decorators, how to deploy a flow, and how to start a worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congrats on your first successfully deployed flow run! Now you've seen how to define your flows and tasks using decorators, how to deploy a flow, and how to start a worker.
```

### Next Steps

- Learn about deploying multiple flows and CI/CD with our [`prefect.yaml`](/concepts/projects/#the-prefect-yaml-file)
- Check out some of our other [work pools](/concepts/work-pools/)

> - [Our Concepts](/concepts/) contain deep dives into Prefect components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Our concepts](/concepts/) contain deep dives into Prefect components.
```

# Orchestration Quickstart

This guide is desinged to get you to the point of successfully deploying a Prefect flow in as few steps as possible. For a more comprhensive introduction to Prefect's core orchestration concepts, please follow our [tutorial pages](/tutorial/index/).

### Step 1: [Install Prefect](/getting-started/installation/)

We recommend installing Prefect using a Python virtual environment manager such as pipenv, conda, or virtualenv/venv.

> ```bash 

Reviewer 3: Probably want to add <div class=terminal> </div> for bash code snippets for consistency with other docs pages.

pip install -U prefect
```
### Step 2: Connect to Cloud or Self Host Prefect Server
[Create a forever free cloud account](/cloud/cloud-quickstart) and authenticate to your workspace via your terminal by running:
```bash
prefect cloud login -k <your API key>
```
OR to use our open source offering, in a new terminal run to host the Prefect engine locally.
```bash
prefect server start
```

### Step 3: Author a Flow
**The fastest way to get started with Prefect is to clone a test repo in GitHub or equivalent and simply add an `@flow` decorator to any python function**.

!!! Tip "Quick Tips"
    - At a minimum you need to define at least one flow function.
    - Tasks, which are called from within a flow, are optional but add more granular observability and orchestration functionality.
    - Flows resemble parent functions, containing a comprehensive range of workflow logic, whereas a task represents a discrete unit of Python logic.
    - Flows can be called inside of other flows (we call these subflows) but a task cannot be run inside of another task or from outside the context of a flow.

Here is an example flow that contains two task calls in a script called `my_flow.py`:

> ##### TODO: Improve Code Example

Reviewer 3: Agree that simplifying/cutting the length down would be good.

    
    `prefect deploy path_to_flow/my_flow_file.py:name_of_flow_function`

### Step 6: Start a Worker and Run Deployed Flow

A worker should be started to poll the Work Pool created when you defined your deployment. In a new terminal run:

```bash
prefect worker start --pool <name-of-your-work-pool>
```

Now that your worker is started, you are ready to kick off deployed flow runs from either the UI or by running:

```bash
prefect deployment run 'Repo Info/<my-deployment-name>'
```

!!! reminder "Reminder: A flow name can be different from its function name!"
    The above deployment run command follows the following format:
    
    `prefect deployment run '<flow name>/<deployment-name>`

### Next Steps

- Learn about deploying multiple flows and CI/CD with our [`prefect.yaml`](/concepts/projects/#the-prefect-yaml-file)
- Check out some of our other [work pools](/concepts/work-pools/)
- [Our Concepts](/concepts/) contain deep dives into Prefect components.
- [Guides](/guides/) provide step by step recipes for common Prefect operations including:
    - [Deploying on Kubernetes](/guides/deployment/helm-worker/)
    - [Deploying flows in Docker](/guides/deployment/docker/)

>     - [Writing tests](/guides/testing)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
Removed tests as I hear not that common of a request.

# Orchestration Quickstart

This guide is designed to show you how to deploy a Prefect flow in as few steps as possible. For a more comprehensive introduction to Prefect's core orchestration concepts, please follow our [tutorial](/tutorial/index/).

### Step 1: [Install Prefect](/getting-started/installation/)

We recommend installing Prefect using a Python virtual environment manager such as conda or virtualenv.

```bash 
pip install -U prefect
```
### Step 2: Connect to Cloud or self-hosted Prefect server
#### Create a forever free cloud account.

1. [Sign in or register](#sign-in-or-register) a Prefect Cloud account.
2. [Create a workspace](#create-a-workspace) for your account.
3. Authenticate to your workspace via your terminal by running:

```bash
prefect cloud login
```

#### If you'd instead like to use our open source offering, 

self-host the Prefect engine locally by running:

```bash
prefect server start
```

### Step 3: Author a Flow
**The fastest way to get started with Prefect is to add a `@flow` decorator to any python function**.

> !!! Tip "Quick Tips"

Reviewer 4: I don't think this constitutes a tip, I'd use a different type of callout

    - At a minimum, you need to define at least one flow function.
    - Your flows can be segmented by introducing task (`@task`) functions, which can be invoked from within these flows.
    - A task represents a discrete unit of Python code, whereas flows are more akin to parent functions accommodating a broad range of workflow logic.
    - Flows can be called inside of other flows (we call these subflows) but a task **cannot** be run inside of another task or from outside the context of a flow.

> Here is an example flow that calls 2 tasks:

Reviewer 4: Use highlights or comments to emphasize what Prefect is doing here

14:36:56.497 | INFO    | Flow run 'dazzling-hawk' - Created task run 'get_contributors-0' for task 'get_contributors'
14:36:56.499 | INFO    | Flow run 'dazzling-hawk' - Executing 'get_contributors-0' immediately...
14:36:57.405 | INFO    | Task run 'get_contributors-0' - Finished in state Completed()
14:36:57.525 | INFO    | Flow run 'dazzling-hawk' - Created task run 'calculate_average_commits-0' for task 'calculate_average_commits'
14:36:57.526 | INFO    | Flow run 'dazzling-hawk' - Executing 'calculate_average_commits-0' immediately...
14:36:58.227 | INFO    | Task run 'calculate_average_commits-0' - Finished in state Completed()
14:36:58.256 | INFO    | Flow run 'dazzling-hawk' - PrefectHQ/prefect repository statistics 🤓:
14:36:58.257 | INFO    | Flow run 'dazzling-hawk' - Stars 🌠 : 12160
14:36:58.258 | INFO    | Flow run 'dazzling-hawk' - Forks 🍴 : 1252
14:36:58.259 | INFO    | Flow run 'dazzling-hawk' - Average commits per contributor 💌 : 345.07
14:36:58.494 | INFO    | Flow run 'dazzling-hawk' - Finished in state Completed('All states completed.')
```
</div>

> Beyond examining these logs, you have the option to explore the flow run via the UI to visualize its dependency diagram. You should find a link directing you to the flow run page conveniently positioned at the top of your flow logs.

Reviewer 4: Would say `will` over `should`. It's printed above.

!!! tip "Commit and Push your flow code to a GitHub repo!"
    Prefect integrates well with version control platforms like GitHub and equivalent, before you deploy your flow, consider pushing your flow to a remote repo. 

```bash
prefect deploy
```
The last prompt in the `prefect deploy` wizard asks if you would like to save the configuration for the deployment. Confirming this will result in a `prefect.yaml` file populated with your first deployment. You can use this yaml file to edit and [manage all deployments](/concepts/deployments-ux/) for this repo.

### Step 6: Start a Worker and Run Deployed Flow

Since Prefect's API does not directly execute flows, you'll need to start a worker to manage local flow execution. [Each worker polls its assigned work pool](https://docs.prefect.io/2.10.18/tutorial/deployments/#why-work-pools-and-workers).

In a new terminal, run:
```bash
prefect worker start --pool <work-pool-name>
```

Now that your worker is started, you are ready to kick off deployed flow runs from either the UI or by running:

```bash
prefect deployment run '<flow-name>/<deployment-name>'
```

> !!! reminder "Reminder: A flow name can be different from its function name!"

Reviewer 3: I'd cut this reminder as not essential for a getting started type tutorial.

    In the example flow shown above, the function is called `my_flow_function` but the flow is called `Repo Info`. Then this command would look like:
    ```bash
    prefect deployment run 'Repo Info/<deployment-name>'
    ```

!!! Warning "Common Pitfall"

>     If you decide to set a git-based pull step (e.g.`git_clone`), ensure that you have pushed any changes to your flow script to your GitHub repo. During your deployment run, your worker will pull the code that exists there!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    If you use a git-based repository for your flow code storage, ensure that you push any changes to your flow script to your repository. During your deployment run, your worker will pull the code that exists there!
```

Congrats on your first successfully deployed flow run! 🎉

Now you've seen:

- how to define your flows and tasks using decorators
- how to deploy a flow
- how to start a worker

### Next Steps

> - Learn about deploying multiple flows and CI/CD with our [`prefect.yaml`](/concepts/projects/#the-prefect-yaml-file)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Learn about deploying multiple flows and CI/CD with [`prefect.yaml`](/concepts/projects/#the-prefect-yaml-file)
```

- Check out some of our other [work pools](/concepts/work-pools/)
- [Our concepts](/concepts/) contain deep dives into Prefect components.
- [Guides](/guides/) provide step by step recipes for common Prefect operations including:
    - [Deploying on Kubernetes](/guides/deployment/helm-worker/)
    - [Deploying flows in Docker](/guides/deployment/docker/)

> And more!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```
I would delete as you state above that these are possible next steps.
